In this file, I take notes of features of Surge that I miss.

-Routing #CC74 to the cutoff frequency. This is the single most important sound control for most 
 patches I want to make. CC74 must control the filter's cutoff frequency - that's a standard thing 
 for me to do but seems impossible due to CC74 being "reserved" and I don't understand what that 
 means. Yes - I *want* to use CC74 to control the "brightness" - as in filter cutoff - that's 
 exactly what I want - but it seems to be impossible. It seems like the intention of "reserving"
 CC74 is specifically to use it for things like filter cutoff. It's like CC74 is *reserved* for 
 cutoff (and similar things) and therefore it *cannot* be routed to cutoff. What?!




-Solved:
 Filter keytrack seems to be possible only in Hz - but doesn't seem to be useful to me. It needs to 
 be in semitones such that the filter cutoff can be played musically by the midi notes. A keytrack
 of 100% should mean: the cutoff goes up by a factor of 2 between notes that are an octave apart. 
 It also means the cutoff goes up by a semitone between successive keys. 50% would mean the cutoff 
 goes up by a factor of sqrt(2) for notes that are an octave apart.
 Ah - OK - I see: The keytracking actually behaves correctly - it's just a bit awkward to set up:
 It's set up in Hz and if you set the keytrack in Hz to exactly the same value as the cutoff (which
 is also in Hz), then you get the right "keytrack = 100%" behavior. So maybe to exactly dial in a 
 100% keytrack, it's best to temporarily set the cutoff to 100 Hz, then set up keytrack to 100 and 
 then set the cutoff to where you want it to be.



Improvements of current features:

-The panning of the ocillators currently only allows hard-left, center and hard-right. Would be 
 better if it would be continuously adjustable.

-It would be nice, if the patches could be alternatively stored in a human-readable (and editable) 
 format. That would enable users to mix-and-match aspects from different patches - for example like 
 taking "Scene A" from one patch and "Scene B" from another. In my own plugins, I have a feature 
 that I call "hierarchical preset management" by which I mean to able to save and load presets not 
 only for the whole plugin but also for various subsections or subsubsections of it. Surge 
 apparently already has that for the modulation generators and effects - but it would be nice to 
 have also for the osc- and filter sections and for the scenes. Manually editing a human-readable 
 preset file may be used as workaround for power-users while such a sub-preset save/load 
 functionality is not (yet) available at all levels where it would make sense (and the scene level 
 is definitely one of such places). 


New Modules:

-It would be great to have a simple sample playback oscillator. It should be able to play an 
 arbitrary sample as one-shot and or with an arbitrary loop and arbitrary start point. The main 
 thing that I personally want to do with it is to imitate the Roland D-50 "LA Synthesis" which 
 entails mixing a short attack transient sample with a synthesized body of the sound. We could use 
 Scene A for the body and Scene B for the transient sample, for example.



Usability Improvements:

-The patch comments seem to appear only in the "Save" dialog so they are pretty hard to find for the
 user who just uses presets and doesn't do any sound design themselves. It would be nice to have a 
 button in the patch browser (the section of the GUI - not the popup menu) that creates a 
 (floating/transient) window with the patch comment. Maybe a bit similar to the button that shows 
 the filter frequency-response plots.